The data for my project comes from the State of Hawaii's Department of Business, Economic Development and Tourism.  My main sources were Public Transit, Motor Vehicles Registered by County, Motor Vehicle Fuel Consumption and Vehicle Miles, Roadway Congestion, Resident Population by County, and Monthly Energy Data from this report (https://dbedt.hawaii.gov/economic/energy-trends-2/).  Population describes the population for the state of Hawaii, along with a breakdown by county.  The same is true for Motor Vehicles Registered by County, except is a count of registered vehicles for the state of Hawaii, and a further breakdown by county.  Roadway Congestion describes traffic data for Honolulu county only, including such details as peak commuters, gasoline prices, and fuel for peak commuter.  I hadn't noticed until now, but this data covers 2011-2014, when I thought it was 2014-2017 like the rest of my data.  Public Transit pertains to details about Hawaii's bus system.  Lastly, the Monthly Energy Data report contains a breakdown of registered vehicles by type (gasoline, diesel, electric, and hybrid).

All the data is organized in a pretty, presentation sort of format, where it is all made into tables with footnotes and titles, as if it is to be presentated.  To read the data, I did alter it in Excel first by stripping away any extraneous formatting, then transposing it so that it was a wide format.  Those altered datasets have been uploaded to my GitHub repo.

The data is important because Hawaii is in the process of building a light rail system: HART (Honolulu Authority for Rapid Transportation).  At the moment it massively overbudget and late in completion.  Roughly half the state would prefer to just end it now or demolish it, while the other half wants the full route to be completed.  While nothing will completely alleviate Hawaii's traffic's woes, I wanted to show how vital an alternative like light rail is.  My app will take this data and show Hawaii's heavy reliance on automobiles, and how costly it is.